do you forget words when you speak
English don't worry you are not alone
many people have this problem but I have
good news for you today I will help you
I will give you 10 easy tips to remember
words when you speak
English these tips will make speaking
easier and more fun let's start tip
number one think in English don't
translate from your language to English
if you think in your own language your
brain takes more time to find words but
if you think in English words will come
fast how can you do this start with
simple sentences for example if you see
the sun say in your mind the Sun is
bright do this every day your brain will
get faster tip number two use simple
words if you forget a difficult word
don't stop speaking just say it in an
easy way for example if you forget the
word delicious you can say very tasty if
you forget huge just say very big this
will help you continue speaking with
confidence tip number three speak every
day the best way to remember words is to
use them talk to a friend talk to
yourself or record your voice if you
don't have anyone to talk to look in the
mirror and speak for 2 minutes
choose a topic like what did I do today
speak slowly and clearly the more you
speak the better you will remember words
tip number four learn words in sentences
don't just learn one word learn how to
use it in a sentence for example don't
just learn the word beautiful learn a
sentence like the sky is beautiful today
when you remember full sentences
speaking becomes easy tip number five
use flash cards flashcards help you
remember new words write the English
word on one side of the card and the
meaning or a picture on the other side
read them every day for 5 minutes this
small habit will help you learn and
remember new words fast tip number six
watch and listen in English your brain
learns faster when you listen to English
daily
watch English videos with subtitles
listen to English podcasts or songs when
you hear the same words again and again
your brain remembers them better this
makes speaking easier tip number seven
repeat and use new words when you learn
a new word don't just read it once say
it out loud five times try to use it in
different sentences for example if you
learn the word exciting say this movie
is exciting my day was exciting learning
English is exciting this will help your
brain remember the word forever tip
number eight stay calm if you forget a
word Don't Panic take a deep breath try
to explain it in another way for example
if you forget the word umbrella you can
say it is something we use when it rains
people will understand you speaking
English is not about being perfect it is
about communicating tip number nine
write more writing helps you remember
words better keep a small notebook and
write one sentence every day you can
write about your day your feelings or
your plans writing will make it easier
for you to find words when you
speak tip number 10 connect words with
images your brain remembers pictures
better than words
look at an object and say its name in
English if you see an apple say apple if
you see a chair say chair this helps
your brain learn words quickly these are
10 easy tips to help you remember words
when you speak English try them every
day you will get better and better now I
have a question for you do you forget
words when you speak English tell me in
the comments I will help you also tell
me which tip you like the most don't
forget to like share and subscribe for
more English tips see you next time
bye-bye